---
title: Morning Prayer for Saturday
date: 2021-11-20
bcppage: 75ff.
season: proper
weekday: saturday
---

{{% office/mp/sentence %}}
{{% choose mp confession %}}
{{% office/mp/invitatory  %}}

### The Psalm Appointed
#### BCP 748ff.
##### The People are seated.
##### The Psalm is sung or said in a suitable manner (e.g., responsively by verse, in unison, or read by the lector).

{{% lesson "psalm" "107:33-43" /%}}
{{% lesson "psalm" "108" /%}}
{{% office/gloriapatri %}}

# The Lessons
{{% lesson "first" "Isaiah 65:17-25" /%}}

##### Silence may be kept.

{{% office/mp/canticle/first %}}

{{% lesson "second" "Revelation 22:14-21" %}}
Blessed are those who wash their robes, so that they will have the right to the tree of life and may enter the city by the gates. Outside are the dogs and sorcerers and fornicators and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practises falsehood.

‘It is I, Jesus, who sent my angel to you with this testimony for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.’
The Spirit and the bride say, ‘Come.’
And let everyone who hears say, ‘Come.’
And let everyone who is thirsty come.
Let anyone who wishes take the water of life as a gift.

I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will add to that person the plagues described in this book; if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away that person’s share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book.

The one who testifies to these things says, ‘Surely I am coming soon.’

Amen. Come, Lord Jesus!

The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all the saints. Amen.
{{% /lesson %}}
##### Silence may be kept.

{{% office/mp/canticle/second %}}


{{% lesson "third" "Matthew 18:21-35" /%}}

##### Silence may be kept.

##### A brief homily, spiritual conversation, or moment of silence may be placed here.


{{% office/apostlescreed %}}

# The Prayers

##### The people stand or kneel
{{% letuspray %}}
{{% lordsprayer2 %}}
{{% choose mp suffrages %}}

_Collect Proper to the Day_
{{% office/propercollect "proper-28" %}}
{{% choose mp collect %}}
{{% collects/20-ForTheSick-covid %}}
{{% choose mp mission %}}

##### Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.

##### Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.

{{% choose mp beforetheclose %}}
{{% office/mp/letusbless %}}
{{% choose mp conclusion %}}

{{% nrsv %}}
