---
title: Morning Prayer for Sunday
date: 2021-11-21
bcppage: 75ff.
season: proper
weekday: sunday
---
###### pb
{{% office/mp/sentence %}}
{{% choose-weekday mp confession %}}
{{% office/mp/invitatory/jubilate  %}}

### The Psalm Appointed
#### BCP 748ff.
##### The People are seated.
##### The Psalm is sung or said in a suitable manner (e.g., responsively by verse, in unison, or read by the lector).
{{% lesson "psalm" "118" /%}}
{{% office/gloriapatri %}}

# The Lessons
{{% lesson "first" "Isaiah 19:19-25" %}}
On that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the centre of the land of Egypt, and a pillar to the Lord at its border. It will be a sign and a witness to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt; when they cry to the Lord because of oppressors, he will send them a saviour, and will defend and deliver them. The Lord will make himself known to the Egyptians; and the Egyptians will know the Lord on that day, and will worship with sacrifice and burnt-offering, and they will make vows to the Lord and perform them. The Lord will strike Egypt, striking and healing; they will return to the Lord, and he will listen to their supplications and heal them.

On that day there will be a highway from Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian will come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.

On that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth, whom the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying, ‘Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel my heritage.’
{{% /lesson %}}

##### Silence may be kept.
##### pb
{{% office/mp/canticle/first %}}

{{% lesson "second" "Revelation 15:5-13" %}}
After this I looked, and the temple of the tent of witness in heaven was opened, and out of the temple came the seven angels with the seven plagues, robed in pure bright linen, with golden sashes across their chests. Then one of the four living creatures gave the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives for ever and ever; and the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one could enter the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were ended.
{{% /lesson %}}

##### Silence may be kept.

{{% office/mp/canticle/second %}}
##### pb
{{% lesson "third" "Luke 19:11-27" %}}
As they were listening to this, he went on to tell a parable, because he was near Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. So he said, ‘A nobleman went to a distant country to get royal power for himself and then return. He summoned ten of his slaves, and gave them ten pounds, and said to them, “Do business with these until I come back.” But the citizens of his country hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, “We do not want this man to rule over us.” When he returned, having received royal power, he ordered these slaves, to whom he had given the money, to be summoned so that he might find out what they had gained by trading. The first came forward and said, “Lord, your pound has made ten more pounds.” He said to him, “Well done, good slave! Because you have been trustworthy in a very small thing, take charge of ten cities.” Then the second came, saying, “Lord, your pound has made five pounds.” He said to him, “And you, rule over five cities.” Then the other came, saying, “Lord, here is your pound. I wrapped it up in a piece of cloth, for I was afraid of you, because you are a harsh man; you take what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.” He said to him, “I will judge you by your own words, you wicked slave! You knew, did you, that I was a harsh man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow? Why then did you not put my money into the bank? Then when I returned, I could have collected it with interest.” He said to the bystanders, “Take the pound from him and give it to the one who has ten pounds.” (And they said to him, “Lord, he has ten pounds!”) “I tell you, to all those who have, more will be given; but from those who have nothing, even what they have will be taken away. But as for these enemies of mine who did not want me to be king over them—bring them here and slaughter them in my presence.” ’
{{% /lesson %}}

##### Silence may be kept.

##### A brief homily, spiritual conversation, or moment of silence may be placed here.

##### pb
{{% office/apostlescreed %}}

##### pb
# The Prayers

##### The people stand or kneel
{{% letuspray %}}
{{% lordsprayer2 %}}
{{% office/mp/suffrages %}}

{{% office/propercollect "proper-29-christ-the-king" %}}
{{% office/mp/collect %}}
{{% collects/20-ForTheSick-covid %}}
{{% office/mp/mission %}}

##### Here may be sung a hymn or anthem.

##### Authorized intercessions and thanksgivings may follow.
##### pb
{{% office/mp/beforetheclose %}}
{{% office/mp/letusbless %}}
{{% office/mp/conclusion %}}

{{% nrsv %}}
